#### Is it necessary for high school students to do household work after school to help build their sense of responsibility?

_Rosa_


Should high school kids do housework after school to become more
responsible? People adopt different stands toward this issue. Some
might contend that doing housework is a waste of time, while
others feel that housework is a good opportunity for students to
become more mature. As for me, I strongly argue that it is indeed
necessary for high school students to do household work to help
develop a sense of responsibility.

First of all, to be responsible, high school kids should learn how
to __manage their time__, and doing household work can help them
develop good time management skills. For example, when I was in
senior high, I had to wash dishes every day. Therefore, I learned
how to do my chores quickly to save more time for studying and
relaxing. On the other hand, my little brother did not do any
housework, so he always struggled to keep his schedule.
Furthermore, he often found he couldnâ€™t finish his projects on
time.

Secondly, responsible high school students are often __independent__,
and doing household chores can train them to become independent
people. For instance, when my sister was a high school kid, she
had to cook for herself, and take out the trash. As a result, she
knew how to take care of herself. That is ,she rarely relied on
anyone and she can make her own decisions. On the contrary, since
my little brother did not do any housework when he was in high
school, he always depend on my mom for allowance. Even today, I
still pay his phone bills for him. Apparently, doing household
work can allow a kid to cultivate independence.

Finally, high school kids should learn how to __lead a team__, and
doing household chores can help them become better leaders. Take
my personal experience as an example. When we clean the house
together, I have to give orders and see that every one does his or
her own work. My sister is in charge of dusting the floor, while I
am responsible for picking up the trash. As a result, when I was
in university, I was often elected as leaders in group projects.
Moreover, statistics show that a lot of students who had been
class leaders often were responsible for the main household chores
in their families.

In conclusion, it is essential for high school students to do
housework to become responsible. After all, in order to be
responsible, high schools students should learn how to manage
their time, how to take good care of themselves and how to lead,
and doing household chores can train them to do so.
